---
title: EVM Overview
---

**Raw tables provide you raw, unfiltered and unedited data.**

This allows you to query for any transaction, block, event log or trace across the blockchains Dune supports.  Raw data tables are very useful to get meta information about the blockchain, a transaction, traces or certain events.

However, queries that have been written using raw data tables are notoriously hard to understand and audit due to the nature of the the encoded data commonly found in these tables. Furthermore, the raw data tables have a very large number of rows and hence can be slow to query. Most of the time you are better off [submitting contracts for decoding](../../../app/decoding-contracts.md) and working with [decoded data](../../decoded/index.md).

## EVM Raw Table Data

Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) powers all chains in Dune except Solana and Bitcoin - meaning they share the base structure for underlying data.

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   Blocks

    ---

    Blocks are the base unit that all transactions fit into.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Getting started](blocks.md)

-   Event Logs

    ---

    Event Logs are data that gets generated by smart contracts.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Event Logs](event-logs.md)

-   Traces

    ---

    Traces contain information about the execution of smaller atomic actions generated by transactions.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Traces](traces.md)


-   Transactions

    ---

    Transactions are cryptographically signed instructions from accounts.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Transactions](transactions.md)

</div>
